RUMM-2249, DOCS-3604 Add draft of crash reporting docs (#229)
DataDog/dd-sdk-reactnative: docs/crash_reporting.md

-   JavaScript source map for your iOS JavaScript bundle
-   JavaScript source map for your Android JavaScript bundle
-   dSYMs for your iOS native code
-   Proguard mapping files if you have enabled code obfuscation for your Android native code

### Upload JavaScript source maps on iOS builds

You need to install `@datadog/datadog-ci` as a dev dependency to your project:

```bash
yarn add -D @datadog/datadog-ci
# or
npm install --save-dev @datadog/datadog-ci
```

#### Manually on each build (without Hermes)

To output a source map, you need to edit the XCode build phase "Bundle React Native Code and Images".

1. Open the `ios/YourAppName.xcworkspace` file in XCode.
2. In the left panel, select the "File" icon and click on your project.
3. In the central panel, select "Build Phases" from the top bar.

Change the script by adding this after the `set -e` line:

```bash
set -e
export SOURCEMAP_FILE=./build/main.jsbundle.map # <- add this line to output sourcemaps
# leave the rest of the script unchanged
```

Moving forward, you can find the source maps for your bundle on every iOS build.

> To find the path to your bundle file from XCode, show the Report Navigator on XCode and filter by `BUNDLE_FILE` for its location.

Author: ```suggestion
To find the path to your bundle file from XCode, display the Report Navigator on XCode and filter by `BUNDLE_FILE` for its location.
```

# keep the rest of the script unchanged

# add these lines to compose the packager and compiler sourcemaps into one file
REACT_NATIVE_DIR=../node_modules/react-native
source "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/find-node.sh"
source "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/node-binary.sh"
"$NODE_BINARY" "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/compose-source-maps.js" "$CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR/main.jsbundle.map" "$CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR/$UNLOCALIZED_RESOURCES_FOLDER_PATH/main.jsbundle.map" -o "../$SOURCEMAP_FILE"
```

To upload the source map, run this from your React Native project root:

```bash
export DATADOG_API_KEY= # fill with your API key
export SERVICE=com.myapp # replace by your service name
export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the version of your app in XCode
export BUILD=100 # replace by the build of your app in XCode
export BUNDLE_PATH= # fill with your bundle path

yarn datadog-ci react-native upload --platform ios --service $SERVICE --bundle $BUNDLE_PATH --sourcemap ./build/main.jsbundle.map --release-version $VERSION --build-version $BUILD
```

### Upload JavaScript source maps on Android builds

#### Manually on each build

> On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the source map file is located at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`.

Reviewer: maybe we should also mention, that it will be not necessarily `release` folder in case if app has more comprehensive variants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the source map file is located at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`. If your application has more comprehensive variants, there may not be a `release` folder.
```

> On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the source map file is located at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`.

Author: ```suggestion
On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the source map file is located at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`. If your application has more comprehensive variants, replace `release` by your variant's name in the paths. 
```

export BUNDLE_PATH=android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle
export SOURCEMAP_PATH=android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map

yarn datadog-ci react-native upload --platform android --service $SERVICE --bundle $BUNDLE_PATH --sourcemap $SOURCEMAP_PATH --release-version $VERSION --build-version $BUILD
```

### Upload iOS dSYM files

#### Manually on each build

For more information, see the [iOS Crash Reporting and Error Tracking documentation][4].

### Upload Android Proguard mapping files

First, ensure that Proguard minification is enabled on your project. By default, this is not enabled on React Native projects.

For more information, see [the React Native Proguard documentation][5].

If you are still unsure, you can see if running `(cd android && ./gradlew tasks --all) | grep minifyReleaseWithR8` returns anything. If so, minification is enabled.

#### Manually on each build

In your `android/app/build.gradle` file, add the plugin and configure it **at the very top of the file**:

```groovy
plugins {
    id("com.datadoghq.dd-sdk-android-gradle-plugin") version "1.4.0"
}

datadog {

>     site = "US"

Reviewer: it is the legacy name, better to use "US1", etc.

Also I think we should add a link to the Gradle plugin docs, just in case, and also mention that value of the side should match the value of the side in the SDK configuration.

Reviewer 2: The link in Line 170 sends users to the Android Gradle Plugin page.

Author: I'd rather not put a value that is not correct inside a code snippet, especially in native code that people might not be familiar with.
Let's put `US1` here and mention the other sites below.

```suggestion
    site = "US1"
```

    checkProjectDependencies = "none" // this is needed in any case for React Native projects
}
```

> The site value has to match the value in the Datadog SDK configuration. For more information, see the [Android Crash Reporting and Error Tracking documentation][6].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [site value][8] has to match the value in the Datadog SDK configuration. For more information, see the [Datadog Android SDK Gradle Plugin][6].
```

Find the loop on `applicationVariants` in the `android/app/build.gradle` file. It should look like `applicationVariants.all { variant ->`. 

Inside the loop, add the following snippet:

```groovy
        if (project.tasks.findByName("minify${variant.name.capitalize()}WithR8")) {
            tasks["minify${variant.name.capitalize()}WithR8"].finalizedBy { tasks["uploadMapping${variant.name.capitalize()}"] }
        }
```

### Verify crash reports

To verify your React Native Crash Reporting and Error Tracking configuration, you can install a package like the [`react-native-crash-tester`][7] to crash your app from the native or JavaScript side.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/error-tracking
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/application/create
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/reactnative/
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/crash_reporting/?tabs=cocoapods#symbolicate-crash-reports
[5]: https://reactnative.dev/docs/signed-apk-android#enabling-proguard-to-reduce-the-size-of-the-apk-optional
[6]: https://github.com/datadog/dd-sdk-android-gradle-plugin

> [7]: https://github.com/cwhenderson20/react-native-crash-tester

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[7]: https://github.com/cwhenderson20/react-native-crash-tester
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
```

## Overview

Enable React Native Crash Reporting and Error Tracking to get comprehensive crash reports and error trends with Real User Monitoring. With this feature, you can access:

-   Aggregated React Native crash dashboards and attributes
-   Symbolicated React Native (JavaScript and native iOS or Android) crash reports

> -   Trend analysis with React Native Error Tracking (capitalize this across all Error Tracking pages)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Trend analysis with React Native Error Tracking
```

> In order to symbolicate your stack traces, upload your mapping files into Datadog. You can only manually upload your mapping files for now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to symbolicate your stack traces, manually upload your mapping files into Datadog.
```

> Your crash reports appear in [Error Tracking][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your crash reports appear in [**Error Tracking**][1].
```

## Setup

If you have not set up the RUM React Native SDK yet, follow the [in-app setup instructions][2] or see the [React Native RUM setup documentation][3].

### Add Crash Reporting

> Update your initialization snippet to enable native javascript crash reporting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update your initialization snippet to enable native JavaScript crash reporting:
```

```javascript
const config = new DdSdkReactNativeConfiguration(
    '<CLIENT_TOKEN>',
    '<ENVIRONMENT_NAME>',
    '<RUM_APPLICATION_ID>',
    true,
    true,
    true // enable javascript crash reporting
);
config.nativeCrashReportEnabled = true; // enable native crash reporting
```

## Symbolicate crash reports

> In order to make your application's size smaller, its code is minified when it is built for release.
> To link your errors to your actual code, you will need to upload symbolication files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to make your application's size smaller, its code is minified when it is built for release. To link errors to your actual code, you need to upload the following symbolication files:
```

> -   javascript sourcemap for your iOS javascript bundle
> -   javascript sourcemap for your Android javascript bundle
> -   dSYMs for your iOS native code
> -   Proguard mapping files if you enabled code obfuscation for Android native code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   JavaScript source map for your iOS JavaScript bundle
-   JavaScript source map for your Android JavaScript bundle
-   dSYMs for your iOS native code
-   Proguard mapping files if you have enabled code obfuscation for your Android native code
```

### Upload JavaScript source maps on iOS builds

> First of all, you will need to install `@datadog/datadog-ci` as a dev dependency to your project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to install `@datadog/datadog-ci` as a dev dependency to your project:
```

```bash
yarn add -D @datadog/datadog-ci
# or
npm install --save-dev @datadog/datadog-ci
```

#### Manually on each build (without Hermes)

> First you need to edit the XCode build phase "Bundle React Native Code and Images" to output sourcemap.
> To edit build phases in XCode:
> 
> -   Open the `ios/YourAppName.xcworkspace` file in Xcode
> -   On the left panel, select the "file" icon, then click on your project
> -   In the central panel, select "Build Phases" from the top bar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To output a source map, you need to edit the XCode build phase "Bundle React Native Code and Images".

1. Open the `ios/YourAppName.xcworkspace` file in XCode.
2. In the left panel, select the "File" icon and click on your project.
3. In the central panel, select "Build Phases" from the top bar.
```

> Then change the script by adding after the `set -e` line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Change the script by adding this after the `set -e` line:
```

```bash
set -e
export SOURCEMAP_FILE=./build/main.jsbundle.map # <- add this line to output sourcemaps
# leave the rest of the script unchanged
```

> From now on, on every ios build you will find the sourcemaps for your bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving forward, you can find the source maps for your bundle on every iOS build.
```

> To find the path to your bundle file from XCode, show the Report Navigator on XCode, filter by `BUNDLE_FILE` to show its location.

Author: show-> display

> To find the path to your bundle file from XCode, show the Report Navigator on XCode, filter by `BUNDLE_FILE` to show its location.
> Usual location is `~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/YourAppName-verylonghash/Build/Intermediates.noindex/ArchiveIntermediates/YourAppName/BuildProductsPath/Release-iphoneos/main.jsbundle`, where `YourAppName` is the name of your app, and `verylonghash` is a 28 letters hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the path to your bundle file from XCode, show the Report Navigator on XCode and filter by `BUNDLE_FILE` for its location.

The usual location is `~/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/YourAppName-verylonghash/Build/Intermediates.noindex/ArchiveIntermediates/YourAppName/BuildProductsPath/Release-iphoneos/main.jsbundle`, where `YourAppName` is the name of your app, and `verylonghash` is a 28 letter hash.
```

> To upload the sourcemaps, run from your React Native project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upload the source maps, run this from your React Native project:
```

```bash
export DATADOG_API_KEY= # fill with your API key
export SERVICE=com.myapp # replace by your service name

> export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the Version of your app in XCode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the version of your app in XCode
```

> export BUILD=100 # replace by the Build of your app in XCode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export BUILD=100 # replace by the vuild of your app in XCode
```

export BUNDLE_PATH= # fill with your bundle path

yarn datadog-ci react-native upload --platform ios --service $SERVICE --bundle $BUNDLE_PATH --sourcemap ./build/main.jsbundle.map --release-version $VERSION --build-version $BUILD
```

#### Manually on each build (with Hermes)

> There is currently a bug in React Native that generates an incorrect sourcemap when using Hermes.
> To solve it, you need to add a few more lines **at the very end** of the build phase to generate a correct sourcemap file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is currently a bug in React Native that generates an incorrect source map when using Hermes.

To resolve this, you need to add more lines **at the very end** of the build phase to generate a correct source map file.
```

Edit your build phase like so:

```bash
set -e
export SOURCEMAP_FILE=./build/main.jsbundle.map # <- add this line to output sourcemaps

# keep the rest of the script unchanged

# add these lines to compose the packager and compiler sourcemaps into one file
REACT_NATIVE_DIR=../node_modules/react-native
source "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/find-node.sh"
source "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/node-binary.sh"
"$NODE_BINARY" "$REACT_NATIVE_DIR/scripts/compose-source-maps.js" "$CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR/main.jsbundle.map" "$CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR/$UNLOCALIZED_RESOURCES_FOLDER_PATH/main.jsbundle.map" -o "../$SOURCEMAP_FILE"
```

> To upload the sourcemap, run from your React Native project root:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upload the source map, run this from your React Native project root:
```

```bash
export DATADOG_API_KEY= # fill with your API key
export SERVICE=com.myapp # replace by your service name

> export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the Version of your app in XCode

Author: ```suggestion
export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the version of your app in XCode
```

export BUILD=100 # replace by the Build of your app in XCode
export BUNDLE_PATH= # fill with your bundle path

yarn datadog-ci react-native upload --platform ios --service $SERVICE --bundle $BUNDLE_PATH --sourcemap ./build/main.jsbundle.map --release-version $VERSION --build-version $BUILD
```

> #### Automate the upload on each build
> 
> Coming soon!

Reviewer 2: We should not hint at unreleased features in the documentation.

```suggestion
```

### Upload JavaScript source maps on Android builds

#### Manually on each build

> On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the sourcemap file at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Android, the bundle file is located at `android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle` and the source map file is located at `android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map`.
```

> After running your build, you can upload your sourcemap by running from your React Native project root:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After running your build, upload your source map by running this from your React Native project root:
```

```bash
export DATADOG_API_KEY= # fill with your API key
export SERVICE=com.myapp # replace by your service name
export VERSION=1.0.0 # replace by the versionName from android/app/build.gradle
export BUILD=100 # replace by the versionCode from android/app/build.gradle
export BUNDLE_PATH=android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle
export SOURCEMAP_PATH=android/app/build/generated/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.map

yarn datadog-ci react-native upload --platform android --service $SERVICE --bundle $BUNDLE_PATH --sourcemap $SOURCEMAP_PATH --release-version $VERSION --build-version $BUILD
```

> #### Automate the upload on each build
> 
> Coming soon!

Reviewer 2: We should not hint at unreleased features in the documentation.

```suggestion
```

### Upload iOS dSYM files

#### Manually on each build

> See the [official documentation][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [iOS Crash Reporting and Error Tracking documentation][4].
```

> #### Automate the upload on each build
> 
> Coming soon!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Upload Android Proguard mapping files

> First, check that proguard minification is enabled on your project - by default it's not on React Native projects.
> See [the official documentation][5] for more information.
> 
> If you are still unsure, you can see if running `(cd android && ./gradlew tasks --all) | grep minifyReleaseWithR8` returns anything - if so minification is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure that Proguard minification is enabled on your project. By default, this is not enabled on React Native projects.

For more information, see [the React Native Proguard documentation][5].

If you are still unsure, you can see if running `(cd android && ./gradlew tasks --all) | grep minifyReleaseWithR8` returns anything. If so, minification is enabled.
```

#### Manually on each build

> In your `android/app/build.gradle`, add the plugin and configure it **at the very top of the file**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `android/app/build.gradle` file, add the plugin and configure it **at the very top of the file**:
```

```groovy
plugins {
    id("com.datadoghq.dd-sdk-android-gradle-plugin") version "1.4.0"
}

datadog {
    site = "US"
    checkProjectDependencies = "none" // this is needed in any case for React Native projects
}
```

> See the [plugin documentation][6] for more configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Android Crash Reporting and Error Tracking documentation][6].
```

> To run it after a build, export your API key as `DD_API_KEY` and run `(cd android && ./gradlew app:uploadMappingRelease)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run the plugin after a build, export your API key as `DD_API_KEY` and run `(cd android && ./gradlew app:uploadMappingRelease)`.
```

#### Automate the upload on each build

> First install the plugin like in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the plugin like in the previous step.
```

> Then, in the `android/app/build.gradle`, find the loop on `applicationVariants`.
> It should look like `applicationVariants.all { variant ->`.
> Inside the loop, add the following snippet:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find the loop on `applicationVariants` in the `android/app/build.gradle` file. It should look like `applicationVariants.all { variant ->`. 

Inside the loop, add the following snippet:
```

```groovy
        if (project.tasks.findByName("minify${variant.name.capitalize()}WithR8")) {
            tasks["minify${variant.name.capitalize()}WithR8"].finalizedBy { tasks["uploadMapping${variant.name.capitalize()}"] }
        }
```

### Verify crash reports

> To verify your React Native Crash Reporting and Error Tracking configuration, you can install a package like [react-native-crash-tester][7] to crash your app from the native and the javascript side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify your React Native Crash Reporting and Error Tracking configuration, you can install a package like the [`react-native-crash-tester`][7] to crash your app from the native or JavaScript side.
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/error-tracking
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/application/create
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/reactnative/

> [4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/fr/real_user_monitoring/ios/crash_reporting/?tabs=cocoapods#symbolicate-crash-reports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/crash_reporting/?tabs=cocoapods#symbolicate-crash-reports
```

## Overview

Enable React Native Crash Reporting and Error Tracking to get comprehensive crash reports and error trends with Real User Monitoring. With this feature, you can access:

-   Aggregated React Native crash dashboards and attributes
-   Symbolicated React Native (JavaScript and native iOS or Android) crash reports
-   Trend analysis with React Native Error Tracking

In order to symbolicate your stack traces, manually upload your mapping files into Datadog.

Your crash reports appear in [**Error Tracking**][1].

## Setup

If you have not set up the RUM React Native SDK yet, follow the [in-app setup instructions][2] or see the [React Native RUM setup documentation][3].

### Add Crash Reporting

Update your initialization snippet to enable native JavaScript crash reporting:

```javascript
const config = new DdSdkReactNativeConfiguration(
    '<CLIENT_TOKEN>',
    '<ENVIRONMENT_NAME>',
    '<RUM_APPLICATION_ID>',
    true,
    true,
    true // enable javascript crash reporting
);
config.nativeCrashReportEnabled = true; // enable native crash reporting
```

## Limitations

<div class="alert alert-warning"><p>

> Datadog only accepts uploads up to 50MB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog can accept uploads up to 50MB.
```

</p></div>

> To compute the size of your source maps and bundle, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To compute the size of your source maps and bundle, run this command:
```
